undermount cutouts
first we will be cutting the top surface
out using a router you can see here that
we have placed a piece of 12 millimeter
MDF under the worktop this is used to
seal the bottom of the cutout as the
final pass of the router reaches the
bottom of the worktop this seal helps
the routers extraction system and
minimizes the spread of debris the
router bit may well touch the MDF and so
this piece is purely sacrificial but can
be used many times to begin place the
appropriate jig onto the surface and
position
be sure to square the jig up against the
the world top it is assumed that the
sinkhole is square in relation to the
external shape of the jig itself
with the jig clamped in place the cutout
can now be performed with a router
we would suggest that this is done with
at least two passes
as with all router processes the key
here is to keep a constant even pressure
on the router
once the router has cut the worktop the
debris can then be removed and the
internal edge checked for sharpness we
would recommend that the jig is set up
so that the router guide Bush can be
changed and a final full face trim can
be performed to ensure an accurate and
even finish
the easiest way to remove the cutout is
to attach one sucker of the seaming tool
to it and gently lift it out making sure
that you do not catch the edge of the
cutout as you do so the excess cutout
material should be left on site in case
of any future instance of damage that
requires specialist repair now the
internal edges of the cutout both top
and bottom can be profiled as required
once the internal edges of the cutout
have been profiled they can be finished
to the required level to match the rest
of the surface the cutout is then
complete and the requisite sink or
appliance can be fitted when doing so
please ensure that you'd follow the
manufacturer's installation instructions
remember use a sacrificial piece of MDF
to assist debris control and save time
cleaning up use two sizes of guide Bush
to allow for a final trim typically 32
millimetres and 30 millimetres always
follow manufacturer's guidelines when
fitting sinks or appliances